# The Birth of the Web

Tim Berners-Lee studied physics at Queen's College, Oxford. After graduating in 1976, he joined the telecommunications company Plessey. From June to December 1980, he was employed as an independent contractor at CERN where he proposed a project to share information between scientists via hypertext, text with links to other text. He built a prototype of the system called ENQUIRE. In 1984 he returned to CERN as an employee. But it wasn't until 1989 that he proposed the World Wide Web, which was based on ENQUIRE. Tim Berners-Lee considered many names, including Information Mesh, The information Mine, and Mine of Information, but finally settled on the World Wide Web.

Besides Tim Berners-Lee's boss Mike Sandall, he also had the support of another person, Robert Cailliau. Tim Berners-Lee and Robert Cailliau proposed the idea at the European Conference on Hypertext Technology in September 1990. But no one thought it was a good idea to make Hypertext part of the internet.

Around Christmas 1990, Tim Berners-Lee had built all the necessary tools for a functioning Web: HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP), HyperText Markup Language (HTML), the first Web browser (it was called WorldWideWeb), the first Web server, and the first Web pages explaining the World Wide Web project. But the WorldWideWeb web browser could only run on a NeXT computer, so Nicola Pellow created the Line Mode Browser, a web browser that could run on almost any computer. To encourage his colleagues at CERN to use the World Wide Web, Bernd Pollermann uploaded the CERN telephone directory to the World Wide Web.

6 August 1991, Tim Berners-Lee uploaded a brief summary of the World Wide Web project to the alt.hypertext newsgroup. In September 1991, Paul Kunz visited CERN. He became interested in the World Wide Web and took the software back to the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in the US, making it the first web server outside Europe.

In 1992, David Williams from the Computing and Networking Department at CERN sent a two-page email to Tim Berners-Lee. The email said that Tim Berners-Lee's work on the World Wide Web, and the goal of creating a system to exchange information, was not the core of the work at CERN and was a waste of CERN's resources. When Tim Berners-Lee received the email, he decided to leave CERN, even though many of his colleagues supported his project. Tim Berners-Lee left CERN and joined the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he continued to develop HTTP.

Today, the World Wide Web is used by over 4.5 billion people. The World Wide Web and HTTP are generally used for many different things. Social media, commerce, gaming and so much more. All that exists only because Tim Berners-Lee didn't listen to his colleagues and the audience at the European Conference on Hypertext Technology. More and more people can make websites for the World Wide Web as tools are built and more people learn to make them. Today there are over 1.7 billion websites, of which less than 200 million are active.